RINT(3M)              MATHEMATICAL LIBRARY               RINT(3M)

NAME
     aint, anint, ceil, floor,  rint,  irint,  nint  -  round  to
     integral value in floating-point or integer format

SYNOPSIS
     #include <math.h>

     double aint(x)
     double x;

     double anint(x)
     double x;

     double ceil(x)
     double x;

     double floor(x)
     double x;

     double rint(x)
     double x;

     int irint(x)
     double x;

     int nint(x)
     double x;

DESCRIPTION
     aint, anint, ceil, floor, and rint() convert a double  value
     into  an  integral value in double format.  They vary in how
     they choose the result when the argument is not  already  an
     integral  value.   Here an integral value means a value of a
     mathematical integer, which however might be  too  large  to
     fit in a particular computer's int format.  All sufficiently
     large values  in  a  particular  floating-point  format  are
     already  integral;  in  IEEE  double-precision  format, that
     means all values >= 2**52.   Zeros,  infinities,  and  quiet
     NaNs  are  treated  as  integral  values by these functions,
     which always preserve their argument's sign.

     aint() returns the integral value between x and  0,  nearest
     x.  This corresponds to IEEE rounding toward zero and to the
     Fortran generic intrinsic function aint.

     anint() returns the nearest  integral  value  to  x,  except
     halfway  cases  are  rounded to the integral value larger in
     magnitude.  This corresponds to the Fortran generic  intrin-
     sic function anint.

     ceil() returns the least  integral  value  greater  than  or
     equal  to  x.   This  corresponds  to  IEEE  rounding toward

Sun Release 4.1   Last change: 15 October 1987                  1

RINT(3M)              MATHEMATICAL LIBRARY               RINT(3M)

     positive infinity.

     floor() returns the greatest integral  value  less  than  or
     equal  to x.  This corresponds to IEEE rounding toward nega-
     tive infinity.

     rint() rounds x  to  an  integral  value  according  to  the
     current IEEE rounding direction.

     irint converts x into int format according  to  the  current
     IEEE rounding direction.

     nint() converts x into int format rounding  to  the  nearest
     int value, except halfway cases are rounded to the int value
     larger in magnitude.  This corresponds to the  Fortran  gen-
     eric intrinsic function nint.

Sun Release 4.1   Last change: 15 October 1987                  2
 

